(CNN)No one, probably not even David Cameron himself, thought it would end like this. 

The British Prime Minister's stunning election victory on Thursday defied pollsters and pundits predicting a fraught new age of fragile coalition governments and lurching political instability in London. 

 His triumph was so total and so unexpected that three rival party leaders had fallen on their swords by lunchtime Friday and polling companies had launched a probe on what went wrong. 

Britain's global partners, meanwhile, breathed sighs of relief that Cameron's victory, and slim parliamentary majority of 12 seats, averted political chaos in London that could have further eroded Britain's already diminished global standing. 

"Cameron looked suitably jubilant -- and a little smug -- as he walked up Downing Street with his wife Samantha on Friday morning after his surprise election win. 

 The outcome of that vote is hard to predict. 

""In some ways, (Cameron) was protected by the Lib Dems as the leader of a coalition government. 

 It protected him from the right wing of his party," Mike Finn, professor of history at Liverpool Hope University, told CNN. 

 David Cameron became the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom in May 2010, leading a Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition government. 

 He is the current leader of the Conservative Party. 

"But many analysts believe that European leaders are unlikely to offer the kind of concessions on the free movement of people, budgets and other issues that Cameron is seeking to satisfy the British public and maintain their support for the EU - even given his enhanced political authority. 

Washington has turned to another ally, France, to partner on military operations against Al-Qaeda and other groups in Africa. 

 France and Germany have also been the White House's main points of contact on the showdown with Russia over Ukraine. 

There is a clear recognition in Washington that German Chancellor Angela Merkel rather than Cameron is the most important leader in Europe. 

But the size of the SNP victory -- and that fact that the election also ushers in five more years of Conservative rule in London will inevitably -- fuel more talk of independence votes. 

 His task is to save the ancient union and to navigate a treacherous political relationship with Europe.


The summary is 23.8368387508% of total
